README.md, before:

# eframe template

[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/emilk/eframe_template/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/emilk/eframe_template)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template/actions?workflow=CI)

This is a template repo for [eframe](https://github.com/emilk/egui/tree/master/crates/eframe), a framework for writing apps using [egui](https://github.com/emilk/egui/).

The goal is for this to be the simplest way to get started writing a GUI app in Rust.

You can compile your app natively or for the web, and share it using Github Pages.

## Getting started

Start by clicking "Use this template" at https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template/ or follow [these instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template).

Change the name of the crate: Chose a good name for your project, and change the name to it in:
* `Cargo.toml`
    * Change the `package.name` from `eframe_template` to `your_crate`.
    * Change the `package.authors`
* `main.rs`
    * Change `eframe_template::TemplateApp` to `your_crate::TemplateApp`
* `index.html`
    * Change the `<title>eframe template</title>` to `<title>your_crate</title>`. optional.
* `assets/sw.js`
  * Change the `'./eframe_template.js'` to `./your_crate.js` (in `filesToCache` array)
  * Change the `'./eframe_template_bg.wasm'` to `./your_crate_bg.wasm` (in `filesToCache` array)

### Learning about egui

`src/app.rs` contains a simple example app. This is just to give some inspiration - most of it can be removed if you like.

The official egui docs are at <https://docs.rs/egui>. If you prefer watching a video introduction, check out <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NtUkr_z7l84>. For inspiration, check out the [the egui web demo](https://emilk.github.io/egui/index.html) and follow the links in it to its source code.

### Testing locally

Make sure you are using the latest version of stable rust by running `rustup update`.

`cargo run --release`

On Linux you need to first run:

`sudo apt-get install libxcb-render0-dev libxcb-shape0-dev libxcb-xfixes0-dev libxkbcommon-dev libssl-dev`

On Fedora Rawhide you need to run:

`dnf install clang clang-devel clang-tools-extra libxkbcommon-devel pkg-config openssl-devel libxcb-devel fontconfig-devel`

### Web Locally

You can compile your app to [WASM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebAssembly) and publish it as a web page.

We use [Trunk](https://trunkrs.dev/) to build for web target.
1. Install Trunk with `cargo install --locked trunk`.
2. Run `trunk serve` to build and serve on `http://127.0.0.1:8080`. Trunk will rebuild automatically if you edit the project.
3. Open `http://127.0.0.1:8080/index.html#dev` in a browser. See the warning below.

> `assets/sw.js` script will try to cache our app, and loads the cached version when it cannot connect to server allowing your app to work offline (like PWA).
> appending `#dev` to `index.html` will skip this caching, allowing us to load the latest builds during development.

### Web Deploy
1. Just run `trunk build --release`.
2. It will generate a `dist` directory as a "static html" website
3. Upload the `dist` directory to any of the numerous free hosting websites including [GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/working-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site).
4. we already provide a workflow that auto-deploys our app to GitHub pages if you enable it.
> To enable Github Pages, you need to go to Repository -> Settings -> Pages -> Source -> set to `gh-pages` branch and `/` (root).
>
> If `gh-pages` is not available in `Source`, just create and push a branch called `gh-pages` and it should be available.

You can test the template app at <https://emilk.github.io/eframe_template/>.

## Updating egui

As of 2022, egui is in active development with frequent releases with breaking changes. [eframe_template](https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template/) will be updated in lock-step to always use the latest version of egui.

When updating `egui` and `eframe` it is recommended you do so one version at the time, and read about the changes in [the egui changelog](https://github.com/emilk/egui/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) and [eframe changelog](https://github.com/emilk/egui/blob/master/crates/eframe/CHANGELOG.md).

Commit message:

Chore: Set up template and basic form for FTUE

README.md, after:

# space-traders-rs

[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/relevantsam/space-traders-rs/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/relevantsam/space-traders-rs)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/relevantsam/space-traders-rs/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/relevantsam/space-traders-rs/actions?workflow=CI)

This package is a client for [SpaceTraders.io](https://spacetraders.io).

It uses [eframe](https://github.com/emilk/egui/tree/master/crates/eframe), a framework for writing apps using [egui](https://github.com/emilk/egui/).

## Learning about egui

`src/app.rs` contains the basic app.

The official egui docs are at <https://docs.rs/egui>. If you prefer watching a video introduction, check out <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NtUkr_z7l84>. For inspiration, check out the [the egui web demo](https://emilk.github.io/egui/index.html) and follow the links in it to its source code.

## Testing locally

Make sure you are using the latest version of stable rust by running `rustup update`.

`cargo run --release`

On Linux you need to first run:

`sudo apt-get install libxcb-render0-dev libxcb-shape0-dev libxcb-xfixes0-dev libxkbcommon-dev libssl-dev`

On Fedora Rawhide you need to run:

`dnf install clang clang-devel clang-tools-extra libxkbcommon-devel pkg-config openssl-devel libxcb-devel fontconfig-devel`

### Web Locally

You can compile your app to [WASM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebAssembly) and publish it as a web page.

We use [Trunk](https://trunkrs.dev/) to build for web target.
1. Install Trunk with `cargo install --locked trunk`.
2. Run `trunk serve` to build and serve on `http://127.0.0.1:8080`. Trunk will rebuild automatically if you edit the project.
3. Open `http://127.0.0.1:8080/index.html#dev` in a browser. See the warning below.

> `assets/sw.js` script will try to cache our app, and loads the cached version when it cannot connect to server allowing your app to work offline (like PWA).
> appending `#dev` to `index.html` will skip this caching, allowing us to load the latest builds during development.

### Web Deploy
1. Just run `trunk build --release`.
2. It will generate a `dist` directory as a "static html" website
3. Upload the `dist` directory to any of the numerous free hosting websites including [GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/working-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site).
4. we already provide a workflow that auto-deploys our app to GitHub pages if you enable it.
> To enable Github Pages, you need to go to Repository -> Settings -> Pages -> Source -> set to `gh-pages` branch and `/` (root).
>
> If `gh-pages` is not available in `Source`, just create and push a branch called `gh-pages` and it should be available.

## Updating egui

As of 2022, egui is in active development with frequent releases with breaking changes. [eframe_template](https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template/) will be updated in lock-step to always use the latest version of egui.

When updating `egui` and `eframe` it is recommended you do so one version at the time, and read about the changes in [the egui changelog](https://github.com/emilk/egui/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) and [eframe changelog](https://github.com/emilk/egui/blob/master/crates/eframe/CHANGELOG.md).
